# Rock, Paper, Scissors (CS50P- Final Project - Jason Woolford)

#### Video Demo: {to be inserted here}
#### Description:
A classic game brought to the terminal with a focus on clean interfaces and clear communication regarding moves from the computer, as well as integretating stylized color schemes for players, and certain messages with the use of Colorama and Figlet.  

Each game is first set up by establish a name and color to define the user against the CPU, as well as an integer value from the user to determine the number of rounds to be played.  As the user plays, they are met with a reguarly updating interface that keeps a running count of each player's scores, and a clean interface to read messages on.

Every submitted move from the user is met with a randomized selection from the computer, who's move will then be telegraphed to the user following their own move, for the sake of visibility over the computer's behavior and to show that the computer does in fact choose moves without a clear pattern, which can be observed in longer games.  As rounds are played, both the user's move and the computer's move will be compared against one another with a number of corresponding messages to confirm which player wins each round based on the outcome of the comparisons.  As this message is delivered to the user, the score for the winning player is dynamically updated while waiting for the user's next move, which is presented visually above the rest of the game, providing for an always-visible running total to show the user how they stack up against the computer during their game. 

As the game finishes, a final finishing message is displayed, colorized with colorama and stylized with Figlet, after which, the game will ask the player if they'd like to play again, and the user can either accept or decline the offer.  If they choose to end the game, a final breakdown of the scores is displayed, colorized and stylized, as the last message the program displays to the user.


#### Problems Encountered, Considerations Made:
As I worked on this project, I actually started over from scratch not realizing where I was going wrong with the actual functioning of the game for a while.  Initially, I had problems with storing scores properly and round counts properly, leading to scores never actually updating and the game going on endlessly because the values were resetting every single round.  I realized that I had placed those variables in the wrong function (initially in main) without ever passing them into the function that could properly account for them given the scope of the functions.  While Rock, Paper, Scissors is a fundamentally fairly simple game, the need to pass so many variables through one another really matters so that doing things like score-keeping and round-counting really made for a bit of a challenge initially because I didn't realize how poorly I was handling simple variables like that, and how improperly I was storing them at first.

Once that critical flaw was realized, it made everything else a matter of simply getting colorama and pyfiglet to work together, which did take some reading to get familiar with colorama in particular, which invovled some extra reading given that I hadn't used the colorama library before, and I had to get used to how it actually functioned, and how to keep it from coloring more text than I was trying to get it to do, which it turned out to want to do by default before I realized I had to put in a specific reset flag after a colored section if I wanted it to revert back to the default white text in the terminal, or if I wanted to transition into another color.

One final consideration I also made was to abandon an intial idea of creating a square border with which the game would run inside of.  This proved to be really impractical for a game that runs in the terminal, I then tried using some of the built in os features to print borders along the upper and lower widths of the terminal windows but found that I didn't like how it looked.  Instead for the sake of creating a more pleasant interface, I just opted to use the terminal clear command which keeps the program from appearing too visually bloated as the user plays more and more rounds.